# Date - 12 June 2012
# Tags - Day 1 Notes

# 30 Days of JavaScript

Today I started this journey to learn JavaScript in 30 Days. I am learning this because this is the most important pre-requisite for Bruno-Simons course on Three.js. I wish to dedicate my maximum time on weekends to this and on other weekdays, I will be giving 1 hour, Ahh!! I am not so sure about this.

# Basic 
JavaScript is the language of Web. It can be implemented using browser console. So Some of the basics include.

console.log() - It prints on the console
-Example:
            console.log("Hello World")   #Single Parameter
            console.log("Hello","World","Let's","Learn","JavaScript.")     #We can also pass multiple parameters



# Adding JavaScript to a WebPage:
- JavaScript can be added to a webpage in three different ways:
    -Inline Script
    -Internal Script
    -External Script
    -Multiple External Script

    -Inline Script - We wrote our first inline script and created a pop up alert message using alert() built-in function.

    -Internal Script - The internal script can be written anywhere either in head section or body section. Here we are going to write our internal script in HEAD part and the we will write it in BODY. Writing JavaScript code in the body section is the most preferred option.

    -External Script - In External Script, We create a file with .js extension in our project directory and link the file in our html section. All files with .js extension are JavaScript files. Before closing tag of the body is the ideal place to put External JavaScript Tag.

    -Multiple External Scripts - We can link multiple external scripts by linking multiple js files. And remember your main.js file should be below all other scripts. It is important to reme,ber this.


# Introduction of Datatypes:
Like other programming languages, There are primitives datatypes in JavaScript such as String, Number, Boolean, undefined, Null, and Symbol.

    -Numbers: Examples of Numbers are:
        - Integers = -3,-2,-1,0,1,2,3 ...
        - Floating Point Number = -3.5, -2.25, -1.0, 0.0, 1.1, 2.2, 3.5
        
    -Strings: A collection of one or more characters between two single quotes, double quotes or backtick.
        -Example:
            - 'a'
            - "Hello World"
            - `JavaScript is a beautiful programming language`
    
    -Booleans: A boolean value is either True or False. Any comparisons returns a boolean value, which is either True or False.
    A boolean data type is either a true or false value.

    -Undefined: In JavaScript, if we don't assign value to a variable, the value is undefined. In addition to that, if a function is not returning anything, it returns undefined.

    -Null : Null in JavaScript means an empty value.

    #Checking Data Types:
    To check the data type of a certain variable, we use the typeof operator. Example:
                        console.log(typeof "Hello World.")
                        console.log(typeof 5)
                        console.log(typeof true)
                        console.log(typeof null)
                        console.log(typeof undefined)

# Comments:
Commenting in JavaScript is similar to other programming languages.
    -Single Line comment.
        // This is single line comment.

    -Multiline commenting.
        <!-- This is 
        Multiline comment
        in JavaScript. -->

# Variables:
Variables are container of Data. Variables are used to store data in a memory. When a variable is reserved, a memory location is reserved. 
To declare a variable we used *var, let or const* keywords.
for a variable that changes at a different time, we use *let*. If the data does not changes at all, we use *const*. For example, country name, gravity do not change and we use *const*.
Note:- Var is not recommended to use because it is a error prone way of declaring variable and it has lots of leak.

A valid javascript variable name should follow the following rules:
    -A JavaScript name should not begin with a number.
    -A javaScript variable name does not allow special characters except dollar sign and underscore.
    -A JavaScript variable name follows a camelCase convention.
    -A JavaScript variable name should not have spaces between words.

    Example:
        -firstName
        -country
        -city
        -isMarried

        first_name
        last_name

        num_1
        num1
        $num1
        year2020