# Data Types
In the previous section we learned basic data types. Data Types can be divided into two parts:
    - Primitive Data Types
    - Non - Primitive Data Types

# Primitive Data Types
- Primitive Data Types in JavaScript include:
    1. Numbers - Integers, Floats
    2. Strings - Any data under single quote, double quote or backtick quote.
    3. Booleans - True or False value
    4. Null - Empty value or no value 
    5. Undefined - a declared variable without a value
    6. Symbol - A unique value that can be generated by Symbol Constructor.

# Non Primitive Data Types
- Non Primitive Data Types in JavaScript include:
    1. Objects
    2. Arrays


- Now let us understand what primitive and non primitive data types mean.

    **Primitive** Data Types are immutable (i.e) non modifiable data types. Once a primitive data types is created we cannot modify it.

    - Example 1
        let word = 'JavaScript'
        word[0] = 'S'

        If we try to modify a string stored in variable word, Javascript will raise an error.

    **Non Primitive** Data Types are modifiable or mutable. We can modify the value of non primitive data types after it gets created.

    - An array is a list of data values in a square bracket. Array can contain same of different data types. Arrays values are referenced by their index.

    - Example 2
        let nums = [1,2,3,4]
        nums[0] = 10

- Non Primitive Data types are mutable, although if two Non-Primitive Data Types cannot be compared by value. Even if two non primitive data types have the same properties and values, they are not strictly equal.

# Rule of Thumb - We do not compare non primitive data types. Do not compare arrays, functions, or objects. Non-primitive values are referred to as reference types, because they are being referenced instead of value. Two objects are only strictly equal if they refer to the same underlying object.

    - Example
            let nums = [1,2,3]
            let numbers = nums

            console.log(nums = numbers)        #True

            let userOne = {
                name : "abc",
                role : "developer",
                country : "Finland"
            }

            let userOne = userTwo
            console.log()


# Numbers 
- Numbers are integers and decimal values which can do all the Arithmetic Operations. 

# Math Object 
- In JavaScript the Math Object provides a lots of methods to work with numbers.

# Random Number Generator
- The JavaScript Math Object has a random() method number generator which generates number from 0 to 0.99.

    Example : let randomNum = Math.random() //generates 0 to 0.99

    Now, Let us see how we can use random() method to generate a random number between 0 and 10

    Example : let randomNum = Math.random()      // generates 0 to 0.999
              let numBtnZeroAndTen = randomNum * 11

# Strings
- Strings are texts, which are under single, double, baack tick quote. To declare a string, we need a variable name, assignment operator, a value under a single quote, double quote or backtick quote.

     # Long Literal String
     A string could be single character or paragraph or a page. 

     # Escape Sequence in Strings
     In JavaScript and other programming languages \ followed by some characters is an escape sequence. Let's see most common escape characters.

        - \n : new line
        - \t : Tab, means 8 spaces
        - \\ : Back Slash
        - \' : Single Quote (')
        - \" : Double Quote

    # Template Literals 
    - To create a template strings, we used two back-ticks. We can inject data as expression inside a template string. 
    - To inject data, we enclose the expression with a curly bracket ({})
    preceeded by a $sign.
            //Syntax
                `String Literal Text`
                `String Literal Text ${expression}`

    
    # String Methods
    - Everything in JavaScript is an Object. A String is a primitive data type that means we can not modify it once it is created. The String Object has many methods.

    - There are different string method returns the number of characters in a String.

        1. *Length* : The String *length* method returns number of characters in a string included Empty Space.

        2. *Accesing the Element* : We can access the element using the index. Remember index starts from 0.

        3. toUpperCase() : This method changes the string to Uppercase Letters.

        4. toLowerCase() : This method changes the string to Lowercase letters.

        5. substr() : It takes two arguments, the starting index and number of characters to slice.

        6. substring() : It takes two arguments, the starting index and Stopping index but it doesn't include the character at the stopping index.

        7. split() : The split method splits a string at a specified place.

        8. trim() : Removes trailing spaces in the beginning or the end of a string.

        9. includes() : It takes a substring argument and it checks if substring argument exists in the string. includes() returns a boolean. If a substring exist in a string, it returns true, otherwiseit returns false.

        10. replace() : It takes as a parameter the old substring and new substring.

        11.charAt() : Takes index and it returns the value at that index.

        12. charCodeAt() : Takes index and it returns char code(ASCII Number) of the value at that index

        13. indexOf() : Takes a substring and if the substring exists in a string it returns the first position of the substring and if does not exist it returns -1.

        14. lastIndexOf() : Takes a substring and if the substring exists in a string, it returns the last position of the substring if it does not exist it returns -1.

        15. concat() : It takes many substrings and joins them.

        16. startsWith() : It takes a substring as an argument and it checks if the string starts with that specified substring. It returns a boolean(true or false).

        17. endsWith() : It takes a substring as an argument and it checks if the string ends with that specified substring. It returns a boolean.

        18. search() : It takes a substring as an argument and it returns the index of the first match. THe search value can be a string or a regular expression pattern.

        19. match() : it takes a substring or regular expression patteren as an argument and it returns an array if there is match and if there's no match then it would return NULL.

        20. repeat() : It takes a number as argument and it returns the  repeated version of the string.


# Checking Data Types and Casting

    # Checking Data Types (Casting)
    - To check the data type of a certain variable we use the *typeof* method.

    # Changing Data Type 
    - Casting : Converting one data type to another data type. We use parseInt(), parseFloat(), Number() , + sign, str()

        # String to Int
            - parsseInt()
            - Number()
            - Plus sign(+)

        # String to Float
            - parsseFloat()
            - Number()
            - Plus sign(+)
